#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
todonotes
pdfcomment
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "palatino" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 2cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Statistical Mechanics | Assignment 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Emmanuel Flores
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
The figure shows the P-V diagram for the same cyclical process that you
 analyzed on HW1.
 Now we’re going to think of it as an unlikely, but conceivable, cyclic
 heat engine.
 Assume that the working medium is a monatomic ideal gas, and, of course,
 that all steps are quasi-static.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
a) What is the efficiency of this engine? Explain your analysis, and, in
 the end, give a numerical value.
 You don’t have to repeat the calculations of work and heat that you did
 on HW #1; just use the results.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
b) What would be the efficiency of a Carnot engine operating between the
 same two temperatures? Again, give a numerical value.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
c) Could the cycle shown in the figure represent a reversible process? How
 do you know? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
d) If the working medium were a diatomic ideal gas, would the efficiency
 of the engine be lower, higher, or the same? (You shouldn’t need to redo
 the whole calculation; just look at where that change would make a difference.)
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
A Carnot engine is defined as one that is reversible.
 The Carnot cycle is a particular type of ideal-gas engine that uses two
 isothermal steps joined by two adiabatic steps.
 But how do we know that the Carnot cycle is in fact reversible (and therefore
 represents a Carnot engine)?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
a) Clausius’s theorem tells us that for a reversible cycle 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\oint\frac{dQ}{T}=0
\]

\end_inset


\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
We customarily show ideal gas processes in a P-V diagram.
 In such a diagram you can read changes in internal energy and work directly
 from the diagram, but you the have to infer heat from those values and
 the First Law.
 Isobaric and isochoric processes are represented by horizontal and vertical
 lines, while isothermal and adiabatic processes are represented by curves.
 For reversible processes, it’s also possible to use an S-T diagram, with
 entropy S on the horizontal axis and T on the vertical axis.
 
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
There is great interest these days in heat pumps for heating buildings,
 as alternatives to burning fossil fuels.
 A heat pump is essentially a refrigerator (or air conditioner) in which
 an electrical motor provides the work required to pump heat from a cold
 reservoir (the outside air) into a hot reservoir (the warm air inside the
 building).
 
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
You may be aware that the temperature at which water boils decreases with
 decreasing atmospheric pressure, so it is lower in Denver, for example,
 than in Boston.
 The Clausius-Clapeyron equation describes the change of the boiling point
 of a liquid with pressure.
 
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
A typical battery for an internal-combustion-engine vehicle is a 12 Volt
 lead-acid battery, with a capacity of around 50 Ampere-hours.
 (Since an Ampere is a Coulomb per second, 50 Ah is a number of Coulombs.
 It tells you the amount of charge the battery can push through a circuit
 before it’s fully discharged.) The fundamental reaction is:
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
