#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
todonotes
pdfcomment
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "palatino" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Statistical Mechanics: Assignment X
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
J.
 Emmanuel Flores
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
1.
 Return to the rubber band problem from the mid-semester assessment.
 We arrived at
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
dG=-SdT+Vdp+fdL.
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Show that we can write the force as the sum of an enthalpic term and an
 entropic term:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
f=\left(\frac{\partial H}{\partial L}\right)_{T,p}-T\left(\frac{\partial S}{\partial L}\right)_{T,p}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Using the Maxwell relation derived previously, along with the data in the
 graph, estimate (numerically) the fraction of the elasticity of the rubber
 (i.e.
 f) that comes from the entropic term.
 Because you’re working with ratios, the distinction between force and modulus
 doesn’t matter ─ the geometrical factors that connect them cancel out.
 Which term (enthalpic or entropic) dominates?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
From your result, does the rubber band get warmer or colder when you stretch
 it? When it retracts to its original length? If you have a rubber band
 handy, test your conclusion empirically and report the results.
 (Lips are sensitive differential thermometers.)
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Solution*
Sol.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Problem
In this problem you will calculate analytically the vibrational contribution
 to the energy of a diatomic molecule as a function of temperature, and,
 by making suitable approximations, consider the behavior in the low- and
 high-temperature limits.
 Model the molecule quantum mechanically as a particle in a three-dimensional
 infinite square (i.e.
 cubical) well of side length 
\begin_inset Formula $L$
\end_inset

 that is also able to vibrate internally at frequency 
\begin_inset Formula $\omega$
\end_inset

.
 Represent the vibrational as a quantum harmonic oscillator.
 The center-of-mass and vibrational degrees of freedom are independent.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
What are the quantum numbers that define a microstate of the molecule? What
 is the energy of the microstate in terms of those quantum numbers?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Calculate the partition function 
\begin_inset Formula $Z$
\end_inset

.
 You can assume that 
\begin_inset Formula $L$
\end_inset

 is very large, so that the spacing between center-of-mass states is much
 smaller than 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}T$
\end_inset

, but do not assume that 
\begin_inset Formula $\hbar\omega$
\end_inset

 is small compared to 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}T$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Using the relation 
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\left\langle U\right\rangle =k_{B}T^{2}\frac{\partial\ln Z}{\partial T}
\]

\end_inset

find the average energy of the molecule at low temperature, 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}T\ll\hbar\omega$
\end_inset

.
 Compare your result to what is expected from classical equipartition.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Find the average energy of the molecule at high temperature, 
\begin_inset Formula $k_{B}T\gg\hbar\omega$
\end_inset

.
 Compare your result to what is expected from classical equipartition.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
How does this calculation relate to the analysis we did in HW 1, Prob 5.?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
