#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
todonotes
pdfcomment
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "palatino" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Individual Project Reflection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Emmanuel Flores
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
05/06/2024
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Please submit your answers to the following questions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Apart from the specific physics content, what are one or two important things
 that you learned from doing the project? These could be about physics,
 about teaching, about collaboration, about yourself, or anything else that
 you find meaningful.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Was there anything interesting or surprising that you learned from the peer
 reviews? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Thinking back on the process, how would you judge your own contribution
 to the effort? 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
I contributed significantly more than my partner
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We contributed roughly equally 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I contributed significantly less than my partner
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you answered "significantly more" or "significantly less," please explain.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Please add any other comments about your experience with the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Answers: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
I think I learned many things, in particular the importance of trying to
 understand something very well and then sharing it with colleagues.
 A while ago, when I took this course during my master's degree, my former
 mentor joked that now I was learning to "not write the partition function"
 and at the time I didn't understand what he meant, but after studying the
 Ising model and work a little more thoroughly with mid-field approximations,
 I think I get the joke; you can do that, but the problem becomes quite
 complicated, thus, you try to find clever ways to avoid doing that calculation,
 clever approximations, for instance.
 The reason o why I'm sharing this is because my knowledge of statistical
 mechanics is definitely deeper, I feel more comfortable with the topics
 in general, and I feel prepared to delve deeper into some topics that I
 find interesting.
 Just as I did with the teaching project.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Overall, I think the feedback was good, in the sense that provides insight
 in the things that I can improve, for example to be consistent with the
 notation about 
\begin_inset Formula $E$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $U$
\end_inset

.
 when I was reading several books I found that some people like to use one
 over another, and I agree that can lead to some confusion.
 Another classmate wrote that the cicada stuff was cool/interesting, and
 that made me think that we need to make things more memorable, and introducing
 some examples like that can help a lot.
 You notice that I'm really attracted into math, and for me some things
 are easier to remember whenever are motivated by some math, or when I found
 some cool result, and that made me think that knowing the interests of
 the students, can improve how to teach some kind of material.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
I think we worked almost 50/50, so we contributed roughly equally.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Additional comments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I did like the project, and this whole project gave confidence to start
 teaching myself some other things related to statistical mechanics, for
 example brownian motion, and stocastic processes.
 As you may notice my language skills are sometimes limited(I'm still improving,
 and I think I'll always be), but for me this was a great deal; to teach
 a class in a foreign language means a lot to me.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
