#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
todonotes
pdfcomment
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "palatino" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 3.5cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 3.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Ising Model: Preliminary Plan
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
J.
 Emmanuel Flores & Zahra Bayat
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
April 6th, 2024.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The plan of this design is to cover a 75-minute class on the Ising model,
 and we plan to cover fundamental concepts, examples, and encouraging interactiv
e discussions.
 The following is an skeleton of the class, we're still working on the actual
 notes for the class nd also the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

problem set
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Goals (Primary Ideas)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Get the Basics of the Ising Model: By the end of the class, you should understan
d what the Ising model is all about—how it represents spins on a grid, the
 interactions between them, and why it's a big deal in statistical mechanics.
 You'll see how it helps us study phase transitions and critical behavior
 in materials.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Learn to Solve Ising Model Problems: We want to provide our classmates with
 the skills to tackle simple problems related to the Ising model.
 This means using formulas like Hamiltonians and partition functions to
 figure out stuff like magnetization and critical temperatures.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Think Critically about the Model and Possible Generalizations: Finally,
 we want to provide our classmates with an overview or the things that we
 can study with the Ising Model or Spin Systems, i.e., some generalizations
 and cool stuff that people are doing in the research community.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Outline of the topics and class Structure:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Introduction to Statistical Mechanics (10 minutes)** - Briefly review the
 principles of statistical mechanics relevant to the Ising model.
 - We want to discuss the importance of models in understanding physical
 systems, with an special emphasis on the fact that the model is designed
 to capture some specific phenomena, and sometimes a full description of
 the system under study is not possible, at least not with just one framework.
 - Introduce the Ising model as a key model in statistical mechanics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Ising Model Basics (15 minutes)** - Define the Ising model and its historical
 significance: in a "pictorial" way - Define the Hamiltonian of the Ising
 model.
 - Discuss the basic elements: lattice, spins, nearest-neighbor interactions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
One-Dimensional Ising Model (15 minutes)** - Explore the one-dimensional
 Ising model as a starting example.
 - Show how to write the Hamiltonian and calculate partition function/Z.
 - Discuss analytical and numerical solutions for simple cases.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Two-Dimensional Ising Model (15 minutes)** - Extend to the two-dimensional
 Ising model.
 - Introduce concepts like phase transitions and critical phenomena.
 - Discuss the role of Monte Carlo simulations and mean-field theory: the
 objective of this point is to show several kinds of approximations that
 one can make in order to find a "solution".
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Discussion and Q&A (10 minutes)** - Open the floor for questions and discussion.
 - Try to engage the discussion in such a way that we can incorporate concepts
 of other areas of physics.
 - Address any confusion or delve deeper into specific topics based on interest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Assignment (10 minutes)** - Provide an assignment related to the Ising model.
 - Emphasize applying concepts learned in class to solve a specific problem.
 - Specify the deadline and any resources or guidance available.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Teaching Methodology:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We want to use diagrams and graphs through the class.
 - In the derivations we want to ask question as: "ok, what could be the
 next step?".
 - We plan to theoretical concepts to real-world applications (e.g., magnetism,
 phase transitions).
 - Emphasize problem-solving techniques and computational methods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Assignment:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
For this part we're still deciding on a good problem that captures a good
 amount the theory presented, but we have some ideas, such as: - Analyzing
 a specific Ising model configuration.
 - Calculating critical temperatures or magnetization.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
